(instrumental piano)
(wind swooshes)
(sword scrapes)
(wind swooshing)
(light shines)
(wind chimes)
[Izzy] Time for the
Digimon Encyclopedia!
Today, we're gonna
look at Gabumon.
He's Matt's partner.
His unique, long
horn is optimized
for close-range battles.
Now, let's check this out!
The fur coat that he's wearing
seems to be Garurumon's.
What does the lining inside
that coat look like, I wonder?
Huh, maybe I'll get to
take a peek at it one day!
(triumphant music)
Which Digimon will
it be next time?
(theme music begins)
♪ Oh, yeah, breathe in deep
♪ Trying to take the leap
♪ Believe you can fly
♪ Become the wind
♪ Soar beyond the unknown
(theme music continues)
♪ Can't hold back
this lightning speed ♪
♪ Trust your heart
will take the lead ♪
♪ Never turning back and
never letting fate decide ♪
♪ Skies ahead may not be blue
♪ That don't mean we
can't break through ♪
♪ Leave your cares behind
♪ We'll never know
until we try ♪
♪ So what can we say
♪ We'll blaze our own way
♪ We'll make it up
♪ We're cranking
up the altitude ♪
♪ Oh, yeah, breathe in
deep, gonna take the leap ♪
♪ Sail into the sky
♪ Over the horizon,
adventure waits ♪
♪ It's calling you
♪ Don't dare think twice
♪ Just take the dive
♪ Yeah, become the wind
♪ And soar beyond the unknown
♪ Chasing the
light of tomorrow ♪
♪ Illuminate a new,
and glorious world ♪
(adventurous instrumental music)
[Narrator] In order
to avenge Ogremon,
and to make sure that their
friends stay protected,
Tai and Greymon managed
to awaken a new power.
They digivolved into
an Ultimate Digimon,
MetalGreymon
and defeated MetalTyrannomon
(laser chirps)
(MetalTyrannomon explodes)
(adventurous instrumental music)
However, they soon found
that the path they
were planning to take
was blocked by a swamp
emitting dark miasma.
The six Digidestined, who'd
finally been united,
were forced to split
up into two teams,
and each set out in search
of the Celestial Digimon.
[Mimi] Ugh
Who even suggested drawing
names in the first place?!
[Palmon] That
would be you, Mimi.
[Mimi] Plus, it's
seriously cold out here!
And double plus, just look!
[Palmon And Mimi] Huh?
(Tai and Agumon grunting)
[Mimi] I can't climb
like those guys can!
(Tai gasps)
Mimi, come on!
Hurry up and join us!
Ugh, no way!
You have to do something Palmon.
What can I do?
We already picked our route.
I can't just unpick it now.
[Tentomon] See ya
when we get there!
(Mimi groans)
No fair!
Hey, I thought this was
suppose to be a detour!
Well its not exactly a detour.
[Tai] If we're going
around the North side
to make sure we avoid
that dangerous swamp,
then the fastest route is
to go straight through here.
So hurry up, the Celestial
Digimon is waiting!
[Palmon] C'mon, Mimi, let's go.
Huh? Huh? Huh?!
Is this easier?
Uh-huh!
Palmon, you're the best!
I love you!
(wind roaring)
Whoa! This is amazing!
I have a suspicion that
we just might be able
to acquire some new
information here!
You know, I wonder,
what does this place
look like inside?
(creature humming)
Hmm.
(wind whooshing)
Boy, I'm so glad we got
to go with Birdramon
Keep it up, Birdramon!
We've gotta hurry!
Leave it to me!
(wind whooshing intensely)
(unknown entity shines)
Huh?
Something's coming!
(wings buzzing)
(Sandyanmamon screeches)
(tornadoes forms)
(Joe yelling)
What's going on?!
Dust devils! Hang on!
We'll cut through them!
(Sandyanmamon screeches)
(wind blows intensely)
We're gonna get caught in them!
We need to land! Now!
(intense instrumental music)
(Birdramon thudding)
(wings flapping)
Gabumon, here they come!
[Gabumon] Yeah!
(wings buzzing)
(ground rumbles)
(metal scrapes)
(creatures thud)
(Sandyanmamon screeching)
(wind chimes)
(ground rumbles)
(Digimon whimpering)
What is going on?!
Was that an ally?
-(ground explodes)
-(Joe and Gomamon yelling)
It's coming back!
(Kyaromon chirping)
-Aw, they're just Kyaromon!
-(Kyaromon gasping)
(ground rumbles)
No, please don't hurt me!
(Kyaromon chirping)
(Kyaromon smacks tail)
(Sandyamamon squelches)
(wind chimes)
(Kyaromon squeaks)
-(claw clanking)
-(Kyaromon squeaks)
Biyomon, quick!
Right!
-(rock music begins)
-Gomamon!
Let's go, too!
You got it!
Spiral Twister!
Marching Fishes!
(attacks thuds)
(gadget whirs)
(rock music continues)
(singing in Japanese)
Gabumon digivolve to...
(rock music continues)
Garurumon!
(Garurumon growls)
(Kyaromon screeches)
Kyaromon!
Don't worry.
You're safe now.
(Garurumon snarls)
(Garurumon growls)
This guy's reading our moves,
by sensing the vibrations
we make through the sand!
Garurumon! Attack
the base of the claw!
(Garurumon belches)
(ground thrashes)
(Garurumon growls)
You guys, go on!
Yeah okay.
(ground beeping)
(tail scrapes)
Garurumon!
Yeah!
(Skullscorpiomon screeches)
(wind roaring)
-(steps crunching)
-(Gabumon sighs)
Did you get hurt during
that fight, Gabumon?
No, I'm fine.
But still,
That power...
It could be an Ultimate Digimon.
Over here!
(water running)
[Neemon] Ohhh.
So, you're humans, are you?
I've never seen one before!
Now, don't be worried.
These guys are the ones who
saved Kyaromon, after all.
(Kyaromon chirps)
Let me introduce myself.
I'm Neemon.
You know, I'm pretty impressed
that you were able
to escape Scorpiomon.
Scorpiomon, huh?
That's the giant
Digimon from earlier?
This whole area has become
Scorpiomon's territory.
You saw the SandYanmamon that
made those dust devils, right?
Even they end up becoming
Scorpiomon's food
if they get captured.
Sadly, the same
thing has happened
to many friends.
I greatly appreciate
you saving the Kyaromon.
Thank you.
(Kyaroman chirping)
(Joe screams)
Oh. Uh.
You're welcome!
Oh, and by the way,
will your entire group be going?
To Leomon's place, I mean?
Hmm, Leomon?
Oh. Was I wrong?
We're actually trying to
find the Celestial Digimon.
Celestial?
Just what kind of
Digimon is this "Leomon?"
Right now, there
are vicious Digimon
that have been enveloped
in dark miasma.
And they're running wild
all over this continent.
Leomon seems to be
building an army
to fight against
those dark Digimon.
A resistance.
That's what he is leading.
Although, I doubt that
they have anything
to do with the Digimon
you're looking for.
Are all of you going to
fight alongside Leomon, too?
Digimon like us are nowhere
near powerful enough
to offer any help in a fight.
But, if we're able to
join up with Leomon,
then we'll be protected.
That's the reason why
we're so determined
to cross the desert.
[Sora] But Scorpiomon
is out there right now!
[Joe] Yeah!
And don't forget there are
Sandyanmamon in the sky!
Forget about
crossing the desert!
It's way too risky!
[Neemon] But staying here
isn't an option either.
Eventually, we'll be caught
and become their prey.
That's the reason why we've
made the decision to go
no matter what it takes.
We're going to do
this for their sakes.
All right, then.
If that's the case, I say
that we should go with them!
Uh, aren't you gonna
ask my opinion?
(Gomamon grunts)
If our group's bigger
than it has to be,
then it'll slow us down.
I'm afraid we just don't
have time for that.
But, Matt...
Listen, we have our own
mission to accomplish.
Or have you guys forgotten
everything that Izzy told us?
(Sora whimpers)
[Joe] No, we haven't.
There's no end in sight to
the power outage in Tokyo.
The other utilities
have shut down, too.
People can't survive
there for much longer,
so they're fleeing the city.
But that's not even the
end of the bad news!
The outages are spreading
outside the city
to the entire metropolitan area.
And we're the only ones
who can fix all of it.
You get that, right?
'Course we do!
We're worried about home, too.
Yeah, but still,
we can't just ignore
these Digimon in need
when they're standing
right in front of us!
Do you really think
you can protect
this many of them?
(Sora and Joe sighing)
Thank you for your
thoughtfulness.
We certainly appreciate all
the concern that you've shown.
But please, you don't
need to worry about us.
No way.
We're definitely going
along with you guys.
Yeah!
Oh, boy. They both make
some good points, though.
So, what do you
think we should do?
Do whatever you want.
Gabumon, lets go.
Uhh, hold on a minute!
No, Joe. It's okay, really.
But-!
So? What'll it be?
(Kyaromon chirping)
Okay! Count me in, too!
I can't just abandon
them, either!
That's the spirit!
Lets do it Joe!
Thank you all.
We're here for you.
(steps trudging)
But, Matt, aren't you
going to tell the others?
I mean, what's
going on with you?
If you don't tell them, then
they're never gonna understand.
It's a lot of weight
on your shoulders.
Don't carry it all by yourself.
But I have you.
Honestly, that's all I need.
(buoyant music)
[Sora] Here we go, Biyomon!
Biyomon digivolve to...
Birdramon!
Gomamon!
Gomamon digivolve to...
Ikkakumon!
Whoa!
We'll lure those
SandYanmamon away
so they don't go
after the rest of you!
Joe and Ikkakumon,
you take care of
Neemon and his group
Okay, got it!
All right, you guys, hop on!
We'll make sure
that you stay safe
while we're traveling
through the desert!
-(sand whooshing)
-(heroic music)
(gadget whirring)
(sand whooshing)
I hope this goes okay.
(wings buzzing)
(intense instrumental music)
Sora, here they come!
Let's go, Birdramon!
Right!
There's a bunch more
of them this time!
Come on! We've gotta
back up Birdramon!
Okay!
Harpoon Torpedo!
(torpedo whistling)
(torpedo exploding)
(wings buzzing)
(Sandyanmamon screeches)
[Ikkakumon] The dust
devils will swallow us up!
Ikkakumon, retreat!
(wings buzzing)
(Ikkakumon yelps)
Everyone, jump off!
Are you sure about this?
(torpedoes beaming)
(torpedoes whooshing)
(Ikkakumon grunts)
(wings buzzing)
[Joe and Kyaromons] No!
Ikkakumon is trapped!
-(wings buzzing)
-(Ikkakumon growls)
Ikkakumon!
(claw slicing)
(wings buzzing)
We've gotta shake this guy off!
(Sandyanmamon screeches)
They're making those
dust devils again!
Birdramon, what are we gonna do?
Just hold on tight!
(wind whooshes)
(Sandyanmamon screeches)
(Birdramon screams)
Go, Birdramon!
(gadget whirring)
(heroic music)
(fire explodes)
(Sandyanmamon explodes)
We did it!
(Sora gasps)
(Birdramon grunts)
(Sora and Birdramon screams)
(ground thuds)
Hey, Biyomon! Are you okay?
Yeah, somehow.
(ground rumbles)
(claw shines)
(Sora and Biyomon gasps)
Ikkakumon!
Sora and Biyomon!
(Ikkakumon grunting)
(claw swims upward)
(Ikkakumon screams)
You all right?!
(claw grumbling)
(Biyomon and Sora whimpers)
(wings buzzing)
(Laser rumbling)
(Biyomon and Sora gasps)
Garurumon, go get them.
(Garurumon growls)
Now Fire!
(gadget whirring)
(Garurumon sizzling)
(Biyomon and Sora gasping)
(Joe gasping)
(claw whooshing)
(ground thuds)
(claws clanks)
(laser rumbles)
(Skullscorpiomon screeches)
Growling Blaster!
(heroic music continues)
(laser rumbling)
(Skullscorpiomon explodes)
(Skullscorpiomon roars)
I knew it, an ultimate Digimon.
(Matt grunts)
[Matt] But I have you.
Honestly, that's all I need.
We can't just ignore
these Digimons in need
when they're standing
right in front of us!
Do you really think
you can protect
this many of them?
(melancholy music)
(gadget whirs)
(Garurumon roars)
Garurumon!
Garurumon,
-digivolve to...
-(rock music)
-(ground thuds)
-(rock music continues)
(singing in Japanese)
WereGarurumon!
No way, we just
unlocked our new power.
WereGarurumon...
[Ikkakumon] That's
an Ultimate Digimon!
(sand explodes)
(Skullscorpiomon roars)
(claw slicing)
(claw thuds)
(wind chimes)
Whoa!
(WereGarurumon grunts)
(claws swiping)
(foot stomping)
(wind chimes)
(Skullscorpiomon screeches)
Wolf Claw!
(wind chimes)
(WereGarurumon screaming)
WereGarurumon.
(WereGarurumon chuckles)
(WereGarurumon shrinks)
(hand smack)
[Neemon] Thank you so much
for all of your help, humans!
[Biyomon] I hope that you're
able to make your journey
to see Leomon safely!
(Biyomon giggles)
Huh?
And thank you for
coming back to help.
I knew that if I left, you
guys would make a move.
And once you did,
they'd make a move, too.
That's what this was about?!
So we were just bait?!
Well,
maybe we should just leave
it at that for right now.
I have a little brother
who's back home.
His name is TK.
He's living in Tokyo right now.
[Sora And Joe] Huh?
[Matt] I don't know
whether he's already
evacuated the city,
or if he's still
trapped in the chaos
that's enveloped
the whole place.
But I'm sure that his heart
must be so filled
with fear right now.
When I think about that,
there's no way I can sit
still and do nothing.
That's why you
rushed in like that?
I don't know why were
all the Digidestined
and I don't care.
As long as it remains
possible for me
to ensure that my brother
can still live in peace,
I'll keep doing it.
Thanks so much for
telling us that!
I'm so glad that
I have the chance
to get to know you better!
And in return,
allow me to tell you a
little bit about myself.
Actually, I think that we've
heard all that already.
Yeah, but he hasn't yet!
We're kinda in a rush, Joe.
There you go Matt,
isn't that better?
Maybe.
(camera clicking)
Hey!
Come on Izzy.
We've gotta keep moving!
Hold on a second.
Just a bit longer.
Is some wall really that
interesting?! C'mon!
It very well might
come in handy someday,
so let's just take a
moment to analyze it.
He's forgotten what the goal is.
If we keep on taking pictures
of everything in here
we're done!
We'll never get through it!
Palmon, can you read this?
(pressure plate pushed)
(wall grumbles)
-(building rumbles)
-(Mimi and Palmon scream)
(everyone gasps)
[Tai] Mimi!
[Agumon] Palmon!
♪ We're falling rapidly
♪ Are we gonna lose it all?
♪ What is it you're
waiting for? ♪
♪ The headwind's signaling
♪ That we better
give this our all ♪
♪ Believe and push forward
♪ Is this the strength
we've been looking for? ♪
♪ Is this the reason we need
to kick down the door? ♪
♪ Is the seed of failure
sprouting into wings? ♪
♪ Does the past
decide the future? ♪
♪ So if you hope
to see a rainbow ♪
♪ You need to open
up your eyes ♪
♪ Take a helping
hand and understand ♪
♪ That it's time you realize
♪ If you wanna make
your dreams reality, ♪
♪ It may not be easy
♪ Just take a breath
and take a chance ♪
♪ Next thing you know,
♪ You're a shining
beacon in the sky ♪
[Narrator] Mimi and Palmon
venture into the
underground ruins!
While in danger, an encounter
with a kindhearted Digimon
causes a miracle to occur!
[Tai] Next time,
"Lillymon Blooms".
[Narrator] The adventure
continues in a new world.